So this thin hair-like stuff
is going to turn into silver?
Damn... I thought they were
roots from some plant.
That's going to become my silver spear, huh?
Man, science sure is strange, isn't it?
Speaking of which...
Kinro, you already got your golden spear, ri—
Oh, wait...
Sorry! I didn't notice.
Who would have thought we'd only get
a silver spear, and not a gold one?
Ginro, move your arms, not your mouth!
Hang on, though.
Why are you only making a silver spear?
Because we need it to get the
maximum danger materials.
Yes!
I finally have a silver spear!
Yay! Thanks, Senku!
Yippee! Yippee!
You don't owe me one millimeter of thanks.
I didn't make that for you.
Come on, let's get moving.
Bodyguard Ginro
Ginro, your job is to be the team's bodyguard.
Bodyguard! Bodyguard!
I'm a bodyguard!
I'm Ginro!
Hey, this is the hot spring area that
I draw hot water from all the time.
I came all prepared because you said
it was going to be "maximum danger."
It gets dangerous up ahead.
Ginro, quit messing around
and hold your spear forward.
Huh?
This silver spear is a sensor.
That's what I made it for.
Take a good look at the tip.
If that silver spear turns black...
If it turns black...?
A few seconds later, you'll be dead.
You need to get away within 0.1 seconds.
We'll all run, too.
The enemy we're about to
go up against will send us
to the afterlife with just one mistake.
This is the greatest hurdle
in making sulfa drugs.
Good morning, world
Good Morning World!
How far have I walked?
Only the pain in my feet
Gives me a sense of the distance
The hope for a beautiful view
at the end of a long night
Is what keeps me going today
The mountains of the gods,
the palaces of green
The depths of the caves,
the ends of the deep blue sky
I'll go the full distance,
there are no limits
To the ends of the world
Good morning, world
Good Morning World!
Rid away the impossibility of the dark
An odyssey turning mythology
into the everyday
In this painstaking journey,
turning over every stone
We'll expand our world
Buddies Back to Back
There isn't a single fish in this river.
I know.
Nothing but emerald green liverwort.
This is it for sure.
Our goal is upstream from here.
So the greatest hurdle is up ahead...
It's okay.
It's okay. It's not black yet.
It's ok—
What the hell is the sensor doing
walking at the back, Ginro?!
Well, you said I was gonna die!
I'm scared!
Want to switch places with me, then?
Hand over the silver spear.
Never!
I'll do it!
I'll do it, all right?!
It's okay.
It's okay...
I-I-I-It's okay...
It's—
Chrome, Senku, Kohaku-chan...
We're here, Senku.
I knew it.
We've found the source of the materials
that were our greatest hurdle.
I don't even know what we're here to gather,
but I can at least appreciate
that this is our goal.
It's so divine and beautiful...
An entire spring of emerald green.
What's up, Senku?
Is this not our goal?
No, it is.
This is perfect.
It's this green water that
we're here to collect.
But the geography bugs me.
The poison gases that form here,
hydrogen sulfide and sulfur
dioxide, are heavier than air.
They settle in dips like this one.
Is that what the silver spear's
supposed to warn us about?
Yeah.
Silver reacts with hydrogen sulfide
and turns black instantly...
Get back, Ginro!
How could you tell?!
I was so close to giving you eternal slumber!
Go away!
Calm down! There's no one there!
There's no one there, Ginro!
It melted.
The bird's wing...
What's the deal with this
spring's water, Senku?!
It was discovered around the 8th century,
in the midst of alchemy research.
In my time, it was a chemical
that served as the foundation
for all kinds of chemical industries...
Sulfuric acid.
And we can't make the cure-all drug for
Ruri without this sulfuric acid stuff?
Nope.
We need to secure a source
of sulfuric acid anyway,
or chemistry won't develop any further.
We'll have to push our way
through to gather some.
I'll risk my life as many times
as it takes to save Ruri-nee.
With my speed...
Back in my age, there was a group
that went to do research around an
area of sulfuric acid like this one.
The man in front knelt for a moment,
maybe to tie his shoelaces.
Sensei, what's wrong?
He was dead.
There was hydrogen sulfide at
his head's height when he knelt.
This is an accident that actually happened.
Humans don't stand a chance when
Mother Nature wants us dead.
It doesn't matter how stupidly
fast you are, Kohaku.
Then what are we supposed to do, Senku?
I have to save Ruri-nee, no matter what!
What else?
We're going to make gas masks.
The only way to fight a chemical
enemy is with chemistry.
We'll have to see how much poison
we can breathe through this.
We can't rely on trial and error this time.
An error would mean our death.
All right, my mask's next.
You won't need one.
Chrome, you aren't coming with
us to get sulfuric acid anymore.
Stay here.
What? Where's this coming fr—
Shut up and listen.
These gas masks aren't guaranteed to work.
Who's going to save Ruri if
all the scientists go down?
All humans die eventually.
But knowledge doesn't.
It's been passed down for two million years.
Listen up, Chrome.
I'm going to pass down
all the science I know,
all two million years of human
civilization, to you, right now.
Wait, wait, hang on! It's too soon!
Quit talking like I'm
replacing you or something!
Jeez, that's so ominous!
Well, aren't you kind?
What are you, my girlfriend?
I don't have one millimeter
of interest in dying, so relax.
But the only way to cure Ruri's disease is to
charge into the poison gas
and get some sulfuric acid.
If the two of us do go down
together, in that instant,
all science will disappear
from the face of the Earth.
So I'm staying behind in case you die.
Yeah, after I pass down all
my knowledge of science.
I'm not taking it, if that's the case!
What are you, a kid?
Don't get so fussy about staying home—
That's not the point!
I have no intention of
helping you with a plan
that makes it okay for my friend to die!
Sorry to disappoint you, Senku,
but I'm not taking your knowledge.
So if you croak, it's game over for science!
You're coming back alive, ten billion percent!
You have to, Senku!
Besides, why are you,
the key figure of science,
doing the raid through the poison gas?
Just use me or someone else.
Senku, that's what you would call "logical."
And yet, you're like,
"Chrome, you're staying at home."
You seem to think you need to protect me.
What am I, your kid?
Don't patronize me, asshole.
I'm not patronizing anyone, idiot.
My reasoning is logical.
I know everything about
how the gas mask works
and about the materials we're going
to get, so our best bet is for me to go.
That's all.
That's not our best bet!
The best bet is for us
science users to tag team.
We can save each other
if it comes to that.
Am I wrong?
When it comes to "that," we'll already
be dead from the poison gas.
There's no saving each other.
B-But there might be, like, an "Oh, shit,
my leg's cramping!" type of situation!
Yeah, you're right.
It might be just 0.1 percent, but it
would raise my chances of survival.
Taiju and Yuzuriha, was it?
They're in the Tsukasa Empire as spies, right?
Aren't they putting their lives on the line?
Aren't you and they trusting
your lives to each other?
If I'm your friend,
neither higher nor lower than you,
it's not "I'll protect you."
That's the wrong line!
Damn it, now we have to make
another gas mask, thanks to you.
Chrome, you can trust me with your life.
Yeah.
Same to you, Senku.
Kohaku, now that Mother is dead,
I have to tell you something important.
Do you know what the most important
duty of the priestess is?
The Hundred Tales.
The knowledge kept within the
hundred stories must be passed down
from generation to generation, without fail.
You must understand, Kohaku.
Ruri won't live long.
We must avoid the breach of
the Hundred Tales at any cost.
You're healthy.
You must be the next priestess after Ruri...
I'm not going to be the
successor, if that's the case.
I have no intention of helping with a
plan that makes it okay for Ruri to die!
Where are you going, Kohaku?!
If I'm in a position to take
on the priestess's role,
Ruri-nee will have no reason to keep going.
That's it! I just need to make Father hate me.
I'll be a rambunctious girl.
Someone utterly unfit
to become the priestess.
I'll carry the healing water.
However many thousands of times
I have to do it, I'll cure Ruri-nee!
Chrome, you and I are alike.
Everyone would be mighty happy if
Ruri-nee were to marry a man like you.
But the heavens didn't bless
you with the ability to fight.
God's not very considerate, is He?
If all goes according to our plan,
Ruri-nee will be marrying Kinro or Ginro.
If it'd be any consolation, would you
want me to be your wife in her stead?
You're nothing alike.
Ruri's ladylike, but you're a gorilla.
See? Gorilla.
What was that about, anyway?
Do you have a crush on me or something?
Not in the slightest.
I didn't think so.
So don't say stuff like that.
This is the same as when we
made Edison's light bulb.
First, we steam-roast some bamboo.
You can use glass that way, too?
Add potassium carbonate,
which is extracted from ash.
We also used this to make ramen.
That gives us this black powder,
activated charcoal, mixed well
with potassium carbonate.
It'll neutralize and catch the poison gas.
Now we have a chemical
barrier against poison gas!
Acquired gas mask!!
Time for the two of us science
users to tag team for a rematch!
We're gonna get over the greatest hurdle
and bring home some sulfuric
acid for the cure-all drug.
This is totally the curse of
that fairy from the spring!
That bird died!
My silver spear turned black!
I'm never going back there again!
Damn it, Ginro...
Come on, let's go!
Whatever. Just stay at home.
You'll only slow us down.
But that's not a curse.
It's science.
Rub the black sulfuric acid sludge
with some kind of alkaline base,
and it'll turn silver again.
Even rubbing it against
the warm ashes will do it.
The poison gas sensor's back!
Let's get going to the sulfuric acid spring.
He was dead.
There are no do-overs.
Do we really stand a chance against
this instant-death poison gas?
Holy crap!
Are you seriously just walking up to it?!
If you stand around huffing
and puffing in fear,
you'll end up overwhelming the
gas mask's ability to clean the air.
It's a ridiculously simple concept.
Freak out too much, and you die.
Now you know. Come on.
I get the reasoning, but...
Damn it, Senku, I'm not as ballsy as you—
Sheesh, why am I sitting
here helping you again?
Senku and Chrome are both wrong.
How is it not scary?!
You might die!
Jeez, I hate it when people do that!
They act all brave,
but they're actually reckless!
Considering you'd rather run
your mouth than shut up and run,
I'm guessing you feel like
a loser for being so weak.
I don't...
Don't worry, Ginro.
You aren't weak at all.
Fear is the secret to a long life.
Isn't it convincing when an
old fogy tells you that?
I used to be a wimp myself.
They're really scared inside, too.
No one is immune to fear.
That's right.
I hadn't thought about it before,
but imagine how scary it must be
for Kinro, with his fuzzy eyes,
to go up against Magma.
But we try to overcome fear for
the sake of something dear to us,
using reason and willpower.
That's what it looks like to me, at least.
I want to save my sister's life.
Whoops, I got carried away
and made another gas mask.
I guess I'll leave it here,
since I have no use for it.
Senku!
The end of your gas mask is melting!
It's about to come loose!
That was a close one.
Good thing we came here together—
Shit.
This is actually bad.
Senku's trying to catch up to me.
Don't bother.
There's no chance in hell.
Damn it! It was such a small mistake...
Take care of Ruri for me.
Ginro!
You're too heavy!
Control your breathing, Ginro!
Your gas mask can't keep
up with your air intake.
It can't?
Is the poison gas going to kill me?
Am I going to die right now?
All the activated charcoal and
potassium carbonate will keep you
safe from the poison gas, I promise!
As long as you control your breath!
You can win against the fear!
Isn't that how you came all the way here?
Yo, Ginro.
Think with this... and with this.
No matter how powerful nature is,
nature doesn't have a heart
or a mind to think with!
That's all we humans have going for us!
Right.
I'm Ginro the bodyguard.
I'll overcome my fear with
my head and my heart.
The tag team between
Senku and me, the scientists...
...and Ginro, the bodyguard...
...has overcome the greatest hurdle
to making the cure-all drug.
We've obtained sulfuric acid!
Yeah!
Acquired sulfuric acid!!
Maybe I don't know what to do
Hurry up, my mind is on the moon
Flying up to where the wind blew
In my hands awakens
The passion overflowing
Just wandering through this world
Your one shining pure
Could never be pierced
with a rusty knife
I'm burning like a fire gone wild
The moment an arrow
shot through my heart
The noise plaguing me was released
Everything was different
from that moment on
If I don't try, I'll never know
Why do flowers bloom?
Your voice echoes
Tell me why?
I just shouted to the sky
But you are no no no longer here,
that's right?
The life we confirmed that day
You can call it a fleeting
dream if you want
But I'll save you from a wounded today
Next Episode
Masked Warrior
This is a work of fiction, but the plants,
animals, and production methods described are based on reality.
Foraging and making things on your own accord is extremely dangerous
and, in some cases, illegal. Please do not imitate without expertise.